 On the 19th of January 1981, hidden in this building in the 8th arrondissement of Paris, a group of 30 men agree on multiple under-the-table deals. These deals, stinking of corruption, lifted one team to continuous victory, prestige and hundreds of millions of dollars in profit. Through manipulation, threats, and straight-up changing the rules mid-season to guarantee they'd win. This is the story of the biggest corruption scandal in F1 history. Ferrari. When you hear that name, those letters, what's the first thing that comes to mind? After all, it's arguably one of the five most recognizable brands in the world. And of course, the most successful team in Formula 1 history. Of course, it's been a while since we've seen any success. But next year is our year, right? Their last champion was Kimi Raikkonen back in 2007, and they haven't won a Constructors title since 2008. But since then, they've come close to winning a handful of times, but they never really had a winning car. And of course, any team, no matter how big, can have rough patches. But did you know Ferrari has gone through much, much tougher times? Most die-hard F1 fans will remember it, but mostly for how they bounced back. Because on their way to the top, the Italian team went way beyond the bounds of sport and morality, doing whatever it took to get out of their mess. It all started in the 70s. That decade was all about technical and aerodynamic innovations, with new teams like McLaren, Williams, and Tyrrell leading the way and stealing the spotlight. But in 1975, Ferrari, who hadn't won a title since 1964, introduced the 312T, the first modern F1 car to break the 500-horsepower mark. It also brought in the use of low wings in a special front spoiler, with guys like Mauro Forgieri and Giacomo Caleri behind the project. The 312T was the backbone of Ferrari's cars for the next few years, and turned out to be an incredible success. The team won the Drivers' Championship in 1975 and 1977 with Lauda, and of course, the Constructors in 1975, 1976, and 1977. But while Ferrari kept making upgrades, Lotus launched Ground Effect in 1977, which totally changed the game. "...using the air that passes underneath this car, channeling it through the side pods, trapping it with these reversible skirts and passing it out of the back in a manner in which it beds the car down onto the track, so improving the traction and the road holding. The principle is very loosely called Ground Effect." They won the title in 1978, and teams like Williams and Ligier not only copied the idea, but made it even better. And just like, that, Ground Effect became the key to winning. That's when Ferrari, who were years behind and were still sticking with Enzo's famous, aerodynamics are for people who can't build engines, finally released the 312T4 in 1979, finally adding Ground Effect to their previous model. And even though the 312T wasn't designed with Ground Effect in mind, it actually did surprisingly well in 1979. Against all odds, they snagged both the Constructors and Drivers titles with Jody Schecter. Funnily enough, a major win for the 312T4. The 312T4 was the first car to be built in 1979, and the 312T4 was the first car to be built in 1979. The major reason for their success was that their car was nearly three times more reliable than the rest of the grid. In 1980, they kept trying to upgrade their 312T, but it was running out of steam. After all, it was a car launched over five years ago, and everyone else was bringing in big innovations and upgrades. The 180-degree V12 engine in the 312T5 was just way too wide to make Ground Effect work properly. And well, the season couldn't have gone any worse, to be honest. Basically, Ferrari went from dominating F1 to becoming the joke of the grid. With a car that couldn't be any slower, Schecter and Villeneuve, definitely not a talent issue, couldn't do much. They only racked up eight points that season, and the team ended up 10th in the Constructors' Championship. Schecter was so shocked, he said, game over, and just quit F1 completely. Whilst panic set in, and rumors were hinting at Ferrari leaving F1 to focus on other motorsports, they were actually working on a new car. The 1-2C4 was a new car, and it was a new car. The 1-2C4 was a new car, and it was a new car. Also, the 1-2C4 was a new car, and it was a new car. The 1-2C4 was a new car, and it was a new car. Which would have a brand-new turbocharged V6 engine. Even though it seemed like a promising project, the truth was, most people saw it as a desperate last attempt. With the team at rock bottom and a project up in the air, Ferrari's TopXX got to work, but not on track. They took advantage of the chaos in Formula 1 back then to pull off the biggest secret ops ever, with Enzo Ferrari being at the center of it all, desperate to get his team back to the top. Enzo Ferrari was at the center of it all, desperate to get his team back to the top. At the end of the 70s, a war broke out between FOCA and FISA, and it was intense. Quite a lot of fans thought this was going to be the end of F1, but context is crucial here, so here's the short and simple explanation of what went down. FOCA was a union that represented private teams, mostly British ones like Williams, Lotus, McLaren, and Tyrrell. It was led by Bernie Ecclestone, owner of the Brabham team, and Max Mosley, who later became the FIA president as his legal advisor. Almost every team on the grid was part of FOCA, except for the big manufacturer-owned teams like Ferrari, Renault, and Alfa Romeo. These bigger teams were aligned with the FISA, which was the sporting arm of the FIA. Basically, FOCA was set up to protect the smaller teams, as the FISA was mostly protecting slash helping the big boys. This was during the same period where many of the innovations were coming from smaller teams. Yet, every time they'd gain any substantial advantage from their innovation, they'd get penalised. This is where we really started to see into the cracks of what was happening behind the scenes, especially with Ferrari. Over time, FOCA gained more control over the FIA. They had more control over the commercial side of F1, making many deals with circuits that the FISA wasn't too happy about. Things got even worse when Jean-Marie Balestri became FISA's president in 1978, basically aiming to be the dictator of Formula One. To kick things off, he rolled out some pretty controversial rules. He announced that the famous sliding skirts for ground effect would be banned starting in 1981, but while Balestri was trying to regain control, the FOCA wasn't backing down, planning to boycott races like the 1980 Spanish Grand Prix and even to start their own championship. To top it off, Goodyear threatened to leave F1 if this circus wasn't sorted out rapidly. F1 became a complete mess, and no one really knew what was going to happen. And just as it seemed all hope was lost, one man stepped up and changed everything. January 1981, Maranello. Enzo Ferrari. Fed up with everything that had been happening in F1, he decided to leave F1. He was a young man, but he was a young man. He was the first one to leave F1 over the past few years. Got all teams together, both the FISA and FOCA squads, and wouldn't let anyone leave until they had sorted their issues. They started agreeing on different compromises for everyone. FOCA agreed on a permanent GP at Imola, which was Enzo Ferrari's dream. FISA agreed to let FOCA host the South African GP in February, even though they were strongly, strongly against it at first. The Grand Prix racing world has gathered uneasily here in Kalabi in the Transvaal. It's been a long time. involved, and as a result of that, there are no Ferraris, no Alfa Romeos, and no Renaults." They also agreed on the US West GP in Long Beach, which FOCA had brought in. Looks like a colossal investment. How much money is involved? Close on $10 million at the moment. And from tomorrow, all the cars of the manufacturers will be on the jumbo to be on Sunday in Los Angeles at the Long Beach Grand Prix. Finally, it looked like everyone was on the same page. But on January 19, everyone met again in this building in the 8th arrondissement of Paris, at Place de la Concorde, to familiarize what they had discussed. It was a secret meeting, with no outsiders knowing, meaning they basically divided up the future of F1 according to each party's interests. Corruption was everywhere. After 13 long hours of negotiations, they finally reached an agreement that laid out the basics of F1 as we know today. They had just signed the Concorde Agreement. FISA took full control of the championship, setting up season-long schedules like we have now. On the other hand, FOCA snagged the role of sole negotiator with Trax, which was the key for Eccleston's later success as the big boss of F1. But of course, all teams would now get a cut of the money made from TV deals. They agreed on unanimous decisions for future changes to avoid another power-up. FISA was the first to sign the agreement. They had a struggle, and set up a proper process for rule changes, ditching Balestri's habit of changing the rules whenever he felt like it. So, basically, the Concorde Agreement laid out how Formula 1 worked, both on the sports side and the money side. And well, let's just say the Concorde Agreement didn't completely end the war. The drama kept going into 1990. The FIA was the first to sign the agreement. Then it was the FIA's turn. 1981 and 1982, with some FOCA teams boycotting the 1982 San Marino Grand Prix, as they still disagreed on some aspects of the regulations. If you want to know more about it, I go into detail. Follow me on Twitter for more details. And as always, thanks for watching. Have a good one. Bye. Bye. detail in this video, which I made recently. And while it didn't totally end the drama, it did make things a lot calmer and set Formula 1 on a better path for the next few years. But there's one thing I haven't mentioned yet. The Concorde Agreement set up how much money each team got. The payouts were based on how well they did in the championship. So if a team finished higher up, they got more cash than if they ended up last. Makes sense, right? This way, teams worked harder to improve, and their position in the championship mattered financially as well. Except for one team. In his quest to fix all problems in F1, Enzo Ferrari managed to manipulate both the FISA and FOCA. Remember, Enzo was the puppet master behind the scenes. And he wasn't about to walk away with the same conditions as the rest. He asked, more like demanded, both organizations for special bonuses, being the only team to race since the very first season in 1950. Ferrari had done more than anyone to make Formula 1 what it was. This special bonus was something that, obviously, no team wanted. But while FISA and FOCA were stuck trying to figure out what to do, Enzo Ferrari made a move that they couldn't backtrack on. If his demands weren't met, Ferrari would leave Formula 1. Everyone acknowledges the fact that without Ferrari there wouldn't be Formula 1. And Mr. Ferrari knew that. Formula 1 without Ferrari. Can you truly imagine it? Ferrari was too big and brought in too many fans to just leave the sport. The losses would be huge for F1, and TV ratings would drop through the floor. So what could they do? Even though it was incredibly controversial, to put it lightly, they really had no other choice. They just couldn't let Ferrari leave Formula 1. They fell right into his trap and handed the team a very special bonus for their historical importance. But that wasn't all. From the very early days, in fact, Mr. Ferrari had insisted with the include the F1. Ferrari, who insisted, was included in our agreements that they had a veto over any regulations that would damage their company. Absolute insanity. It was pretty much what he'd been doing through the FISA before, and what the whole turmoil was about. At the end of the day, what really mattered to people like Balestri, Ecclestone, and Moseley was the money. So yeah, Ferrari now earned a much bigger part of the pie than basically any other car. The F1 was a huge success. Ferrari was a huge success. Ferrari was a huge success. Ferrari is practically the right to change rules at any point, however they'd see fit, making them by far the most powerful team in Formula 1. It's a huge effort it makes that。 By the way, whatashes 저희 new Université. Wir sind♡ This was the way it was. There's probably a lot difference in behavior in Europe and in French. After their terrible year in 1980, Ferrari brought out the 126 CK. V6 turbo engine in 1981, and even though they didn't reach the top, Gilles Villeneuve scored two wins and another podium finish. The next season was another tough one. Villeneuve passed away after that horrific crash at Zolder. And his team mate Didier Peroni, who was by far the favorite to win the title by the way, had a career-ending accident in Germany. And even with all these tragedies, Ferrari ended up winning the Constructors' Championship. And in 1983, the team won the Constructors' title again. Ferrari went from rock bottom to being back on top right after that meeting in Paris. But somehow, Ferrari didn't win any more titles. And that's when the first time Ferrari won the Constructors' Championship. In the 80s or 90s, even though they came close many, many times. And while a lot of things changed, one thing never changed. Ferrari's historical bonus and their veto power. In the early 90s, Ferrari used their veto right to keep their V12 engines, even though everyone else was moving to V10s, which were the future. This way, they not only avoided failing, like in 1980, but also kept on improving in the following years, with F1 getting more and more popular, plus the rise in professionalism and new tech. Costs went through the roof, and some teams simply couldn't handle it. Even though they'd been very successful in the past, they just had to call it quits. The reason we have chosen to sell, however, is because we're not going to be able to sell the car. It's primarily financial. But Ferrari, even though they weren't performing much on track, could still keep going, with more control over the sport than anyone else. I think most of us would agree. Ferrari messed up the competitive balance in F1. They weren't just threatening to leave when they didn't get exactly what they wanted, but the Italian team had pretty much locked in a lifetime spot. And I don't know if you realize, but they went 20 years without winning, but somehow still stuck around. And whilst teams like McLaren and Williams helped propel the team, the Italian team was able to hold the sport in so many ways. It was still Ferrari reaping in the majority of the rewards. With a solid team that knew how to make the most of these perks, led by Jean Todt and with top engineers like Ross Brawn and Rory Byrne, plus Michael Schumacher joining in 1996, they finally used their extra resources the right way. Ferrari was back in the game. The crowd booed. He wins the British 4-3. Schumacher couldn't quite beat the Williams of Hill. He was a real champion. He beat Hilton Villeneuve in 96 and 97, or Hakkinen's McLaren in 98. However, in 99, it looked like he could pull it off. But a crash at Silverstone sidelined him for half the season. Still, with Eddie Irvine's team, the team was still in the lead. But the team was still in the lead. And the team was still in the lead. And the team was still in the lead. And the team was still in the lead. With Eddie Irvine stepping up as team leader, Ferrari snagged the Constructors' Championship. Finally, another title. And then, in the year 2000, Ferrari was really back. This car is unbelievable. It is! Yeah! Yeah! It's the World Championship for the full time to give Ferrari and Italy their dream! Ten wins and eleven more podiums. And from here on, Ferrari, the most powerful team off track, became unstoppable. Let's give it up for victory! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! We win it! Ferrari had just kicked off the most dominant era any team had ever had. And of course, Schumacher, with seven championships becoming the most successful driver ever. The Italian team was finally back to being what it used to be. Ferrari. They not only saved their legacy, but took the entire brand to new heights. How much influence did their little perks have on this dominance? I'll let you figure that one out for yourself. After their golden era, they grabbed one more drivers championship, with Kimi in 2007. I got it! 2007, and another Constructors title in 2008. And then they entered a phase that's still going on today, almost 20 years without a title. So what are their exact perks nowadays? In the latest Concord agreement, signed in 2021 and lasting until 2025, teams split 50% of F1's profits, with that percentage going down if more revenue comes in. In 2023, for example, revenue topped $3 billion, and the teams split 45% of that, including bonuses for things like winning the championship, of course. Ferrari, on the other hand, gets an extra 5% if the total money for teams is under $1.1 billion, and it jumps to 10% if it goes over $1.6 billion. So basically, as the money pool gets bigger, the teams get less and Ferrari gets more? What the actual f-? But that's not all. They've used their veto power a few times. The FIA regards smaller budgets as essential if the sport is to survive in these difficult economic times. In 2009, they used it to block a budget cap that FIA wanted to put in place to cut costs and help smaller teams. This is a row about money and power. Teams don't like the idea of having budget caps imposed upon them from above. Generally speaking, they find it very difficult to agree on anything. What's your next step? Right, well, the next step that we're going to take, because trying to take something which isn't... Yours. It's not really in accordance with the law. So next week we will be issuing legal proceedings against Ferrari and also against Ford. Then in 2015, they blocked another proposal to limit the price of engines for customer teams. It's true they haven't won in a while, but they've never sunk as low as other big historic teams like Williams or McLaren, who've spent years at the back of the grid. I mean, with all the resources and political perks, it's close to impossible, right? But what if they lost their FIA-granted rights? Well, that's a good question. Would they sink and leave the sport? Or would they just stick around in F1, hitting rock bottom like in the 80s? It's more than clear they have an unfair advantage over anyone else. And the craziest part is how secretive this all is. Sure, if you're a diehard fan, you'd know about this, but most people have no idea. But this is by far not the only time we've seen corruption, manipulation and cheating in F1. So make sure you watch this one next. And as always, thank you for watching. And as always, thanks for watching.